README.md, before:

# **NUScheduler**

Group Name: NUScheduler  
Group Members: MINERN CHAN, CHENG XUAN MIN  
Proposed Level of Achievement: Gemini

## Problem description

Students in university at times face the dilemma of planning what modules to choose for not just the next semester, but also the subsequent semesters. This is especially true for freshmen who would be concerned with planning their module routes for 4 years of university education. Most of the time, the issues tend to be related to fulfilling prerequisites for higher level modules and whether the specific basket of modules taken in one semester will be manageable for a typical student. Also, students intending to apply for Student Exchange Programmes(SEP) may also be unsure of how to incorporate the SEP into their module mapping. In the end, students may find that they have not planned their schedules optimally and may even end up taking extra semesters to fulfill certain requirements just to graduate, or end up selecting a basket of modules that is too demanding with heavy workloads.

On the other hand, there are senior students who are enthusiastic about helping others to map out their modules so that others do not face the same problems they did while planning their modules. However, they do not have the channels to share their experiences with others.

## What are we going to do
NUScheduler aims to provide a platform to connect these students with their seniors so that they can find out how their seniors mapped out their modules each semester, to know what problems they faced and they can choose to plan their schedules based on how their seniors have done so. 

On this platform, students can share their past schedules on the website for others to view, as well as add a description for each schedule regarding any problems with the basket of modules in each semester, and also add comments if they had any problems meeting prerequisite requirements. 

Students who are unsure how to map out their modules will be able to see how others before them have planned their study route and avoid any of the problems mentioned above. They can also review and comment on the schedules shared by others to help identify schedules that have helped them better plan their timetables.

## Inspiration and how we are different
NUSMods is our inspiration as we have benefitted a lot from being able to visualize the modules on a timetable. However, only individual modules can be reviewed by students, and not the particular timetable as a whole. Thus, we want to let students share their entire timetable and share their experience with others.

## Features
Some of the features we want to include in our web app include:

1.  CRUD - Users can share their schedules (Create), view schedules shared by others (Read), make changes to their shared schedules (Update), and remove their shared schedules (Delete). 

2.  Integration of Social Media and NUSNET Account - allow users to create an account and log in with their social media or NUSNET IDs so they can be better identified (which will improve the reliability of their shared schedules).

3.  User Interface - to make it easy for users to navigate across different schedules based on different filters.


## System Flow

![Image of System Flow for Users looking for schedules](systemjunior.PNG)

![Image of System Flow for Users sharing schedules](systemsenior.PNG)



# User Stories

1. As a user, I want to be able to find schedules that are relevant to me, so I won't have to spend too much time searching.

2. As a user, I want to be able to know how helpful certain schedules are to others, so I can look out for them first.

3. As a user, I want to be able to provide feedback, so others can know how helpful a particular schedule has been to me.

4. As a user, I want to be able to contact the users who shared their schedules, so I can ask more in-depth questions and find out more information.

5. As a user, I want to be able to share my schedules, so others can learn from my personal experience.

6. As a user, I want to be able to respond to any comments or questions on my shared schedules, so I can provide more useful information to help others.

7. As an administrator, I want to ensure that only authenticated users on the website can share their schedules, so that the information shared on the website will be reliable.

8. As an administrator, I want to ensure that only authenticated users can message other users or comment on shared schedules, so that users who share their schedules will not be spammed or harassed.


# Project Timeline

### **Milestone 1**
**Deliverables**
1. README - Documentation of project
2. Project Log - Access it [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WXrJ6DX2K2kuVXnYDIx9TSiST4avn1OwMiJcSvajT_U/edit?usp=sharing "Orbital Project Log")
3. Video - Access it [here]

At the end of Milestone 1, we aim to equipped with the basic skills in using the tools needed to implement the minimum viable product of our web application, along with the overall layout of the web app and what essential functionalities it should have to serve its purpose. 

At the start of the project, due to our inexperience with web applications, we experimented with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, MeteorJS and MongoDB (which we were exposed to during the Liftoff workshops). For our frontend, we have chosen to work with HTML, CSS and Bootstrap. However, as we have some prior experience with other programming languages (Python) and other database tools (MySQL), we decided to use Django Web Framework and MySQL for our backend processes. 

Then, we did some initial planning by brainstorming the user stories and drafting the system flow of users on our web application, with the different needs required at each process sorted according to priority levels so that we know what to focus on to produce a minimum viable product. (Refer to System Flow and User Stories section)

For the development of the web application, both of us will work on the design and layout of the application. Xuan Min will be in charge of implementing the frontend while Minern will be in charge of implementing the backend of the web application.

Commit message:

made minor changes to user stories and added logo

README.md, after:

# **NUScheduler**
![NUScheduler Logo](NUScheduler-logo.PNG)  
Group Name: NUScheduler  
Group Members: MINERN CHAN, CHENG XUAN MIN  
Proposed Level of Achievement: Gemini

## Problem description

Students in university at times face the dilemma of planning what modules to choose for not just the next semester, but also the subsequent semesters. This is especially true for freshmen who would be concerned with planning their module routes for 4 years of university education. Most of the time, the issues tend to be related to fulfilling prerequisites for higher level modules and whether the specific basket of modules taken in one semester will be manageable for a typical student. Also, students intending to apply for Student Exchange Programmes(SEP) may also be unsure of how to incorporate the SEP into their module mapping. In the end, students may find that they have not planned their schedules optimally and may even end up taking extra semesters to fulfill certain requirements just to graduate, or end up selecting a basket of modules that is too demanding with heavy workloads.

On the other hand, there are senior students who are enthusiastic about helping others to map out their modules so that others do not face the same problems they did while planning their modules. However, they do not have the channels to share their experiences with others.

## What are we going to do
NUScheduler aims to provide a platform to connect these students with their seniors so that they can find out how their seniors mapped out their modules each semester, to know what problems they faced and they can choose to plan their schedules based on how their seniors have done so. 

On this platform, students can share their past schedules on the website for others to view, as well as add a description for each schedule regarding any problems with the basket of modules in each semester, and also add comments if they had any problems meeting prerequisite requirements. 

Students who are unsure how to map out their modules will be able to see how others before them have planned their study route and avoid any of the problems mentioned above. They can also review and comment on the schedules shared by others to help identify schedules that have helped them better plan their timetables.

## Inspirations and how we are different
1. NUSMods is our inspiration as we have benefitted a lot from being able to visualize the modules on a timetable. However, only individual modules can be reviewed by students, and not the particular timetable as a whole. Thus, we want to let students share their entire timetable and share their experience with others.


## Features
Some of the features we want to include in our web app include:

1.  CRUD - Users can share their schedules (Create), view schedules shared by others (Read), make changes to their shared schedules (Update), and remove their shared schedules (Delete). 

2.  Integration of Social Media and NUSNET Account - allow users to create an account and log in with their social media or NUSNET IDs so they can be better identified (which will improve the reliability of their shared schedules).

3.  User Interface - to make it easy for users to navigate across different schedules based on different filters.


## System Flow

![Image of System Flow for Users looking for schedules](systemjunior.PNG)

![Image of System Flow for Users sharing schedules](systemsenior.PNG)



# User Stories
## Essentials
- Freshmen/ Junior Students  
    1. As a user, I want to be able to **quickly find schedules** that are relevant to me, so I won't have to spend too much time searching.

    2. As a user, I want to be able to **know which schedules have been helpful to other students** like myself, so I can look out for them first.

    3. As a user, I want to be able to **provide feedback**, so others can know how helpful a particular schedule has been to me.

    4. As a user, I want to be able to **contact the users who shared their schedules**, so I can ask more in-depth questions and find out more information.

 - Senior Students    
    
    5. As a user, I want to be able to **share my schedules**, so others can learn from my personal experience.

    6. As a user, I want to be able to **respond to any comments or questions on my shared schedules**, so I can provide more useful information to help others.

- Admin    
    
    7. As an administrator, I want to ensure that **only authenticated users on the website can share their schedules**, so that the information shared on the website will be reliable.

    8. As an administrator, I want to ensure that **only authenticated users can message other users or comment on shared schedules**, so that users who share their schedules will not be spammed or harassed.

## Luxury
    1. As an administrator, I want to be able to **manage the shared schedules and archive schedules that contain outdated modules**, so that the information on the web application stays relevant. (Priority 2)

# Project Timeline


### **Milestone 1**
**Deliverables**
1. README - Documentation of project
2. Project Log - Access it [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WXrJ6DX2K2kuVXnYDIx9TSiST4avn1OwMiJcSvajT_U/edit?usp=sharing "Orbital Project Log")
3. Video - Access it [here]

At the end of Milestone 1, we aim to equipped with the basic skills in using the tools needed to implement the minimum viable product of our web application, along with the overall layout of the web app and what essential functionalities it should have to serve its purpose. 

At the start of the project, due to our inexperience with web applications, we experimented with HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, MeteorJS and MongoDB (which we were exposed to during the Liftoff workshops). For our frontend, we have chosen to work with HTML, CSS and Bootstrap. However, as we have some prior experience with other programming languages (Python) and other database tools (MySQL), we decided to use Django Web Framework and MySQL for our backend processes. 

Then, we did some initial planning by brainstorming the user stories and drafting the system flow of users on our web application, with the different needs required at each process sorted according to priority levels so that we know what to focus on to produce a minimum viable product. (Refer to System Flow and User Stories section)

For the development of the web application, both of us will work on the design and layout of the application. Xuan Min will be in charge of implementing the frontend while Minern will be in charge of implementing the backend of the web application.
